okay I'm going to take a minute just to
show off my 40 gallon refugium for my
hundred and fifty gallon mix reef tank
as you can see water is pretty clear
this is about two months up and running
as you can see also there's quite a lot
of fish and bio load in here
my filtration seems to be working pretty
well I have to overflow pipes that come
down and I have them running into a just
a cheap Walmart filter here now as you
see there's no filter in it filter media
but every once in a while if I'm blowing
off the live rock or something and
there's a lot of debris floating around
I'll just stick one of these in there
that's got carbon in it also that gets
expensive to have them in there all the
time though because they only last two
or three days before you have to take
them out so most the filtration happens
from this planted refugium it's a 40
gallon as you can see it goes all the
way back there and I have lots of little
cocoa pods in there and lots of little
also mices trim and I have some blue
legs in there couple emerald crabs have
a couple little stars to help eat up the
detritus and everything I keep my light
on 24/7 just to help the plants grow and
as you can see the clerk was throwing
pretty good I think that's what that is
and then I have a little small hanging
on the back review put around a protein
skimmer over there that's an aqua max
that thing is incredible I love it it's
I think it does the work of other
protein skimmers twice its size
and it seems to keep up with everything
just fine in addition to this the only
other filtration item that I have is the
fairly large UV sterilizer that's on the
return pump one of the returned pumps
and I'm told that that really helps cut
down on the algae as well but I don't
think there's a lot of nutrients in the
water to begin with because of this
refugium and so no sump and no bio balls
and no filter socks and all that other
stuff I think this is a more natural way
of doing filtration it's also less
expensive at least it was for me cuz I
already had the tank lying around and
most of the live rock was already here
so but I just wanted to show that off
once again that's the result
clear water not a lot of algae fish
you're doing well